#Fingal: an ancient epic poem, in six books: together with several other poems, composed by Ossian the son of Fingal. Translated from the Galic language, by James Macpherson.#

##Macpherson, James, 1736-1796.##
Fingal: an ancient epic poem, in six books: together with several other poems, composed by Ossian the son of Fingal. Translated from the Galic language, by James Macpherson.
Macpherson, James, 1736-1796.

##General Summary##

**Links**

[TCP catalogue](http://www.ota.ox.ac.uk/tcp/)  • 
[HTML](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-HTML/free/004/004888751.html)  • 
[EPUB](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-EPUB/free/004/004888751.epub)

**Availability**

This keyboarded and encoded edition of the
	       work described above is co-owned by the institutions
	       providing financial support to the Early English Books
	       Online Text Creation Partnership. This Phase I text is
	       available for reuse, according to the terms of Creative
	       Commons 0 1.0 Universal. The text can be copied,
	       modified, distributed and performed, even for
	       commercial purposes, all without asking permission.


##Content Summary##

#####Front#####

1. CONTENTS.

1. PREFACE.

1. A DISSERTATION CONCERNING THE ANTIQUITY, &c. of the POEMS of OSSIAN the Son of FINGAL.

#####Body#####

1. FINGAL, AN ANCIENT EPIC POEM. In SIX BOOKS.

    _ BOOK I.

    _ FINGAL, AN ANCIENT EPIC POEM.

    _ FINGAL, AN ANCIENT EPIC POEM.

    _ FINGAL, AN ANCIENT EPIC POEM.

    _ FINGAL, AN ANCIENT EPIC POEM.

    _ FINGAL, AN ANCIENT EPIC POEM.

1. COMÁLA: A DRAMATIC POEMThis poem is valuable on account of the light it throws on the antiquity of Oſſian's compoſitions. The Caracul mentioned here is the ſame with Caracalla the ſon of Severus, who in the year 211 commanded an expedition againſt the Caledonians.—The variety of the meaſure ſhews that the poem was originally ſet to muſic, and perhaps preſented before the chiefs upon ſolemn occaſions.—Tradition has handed down the ſtory more complete than it is in the poem—"Comala, the daughter of Sarno king of Iniſtore or Orkney iſlands, fell in love with Fingal the ſon of Comhal at a feaſt, to which her father had invited him, [Fingal, B. III.] upon his return from Lochlin, after the death of Agandecca. Her paſſion was ſo violent, that ſhe followed him, diſguiſed like a youth, who wanted to be employed in his wars. She was ſoon diſcovered by Hidallan the ſon of Lamor, one of Fingal's heroes, whoſe love ſhe had ſlighted ſome time before—Her romantic paſſion and beauty recommended her ſo much to the king, that he had reſolved to make her his wife; when news was brought him of Caracul's expedition. He marched to ſtop the progreſs of the enemy, and Comala attended him.—He left her on a hill, within ſight of Caracul's army, when he himſelf went to battle, having previouſly promiſed, if he ſurvived, to return that night." The ſequel of the ſtory may be gathered from the poem itſelf..

1. THE WAR of CAROS Caros is probably the noted uſurper Carauſius, by birth a Menapian, who aſſumed the purple in the year 284; and, ſeizing on Britain, defeated the emperor Maximian Herculius in ſeveral naval engagements, which gives propriety to his being called in this poem the king of ſhips.—He repaired Agricola's wall, in order to obſtruct the incurſions of the Caledonians; and when he was employed in that work, it appears he was attacked by a party under the command of Oſcar the ſon of Oſſian. This battle is the foundation of the preſent poem, which is addreſſed to Malvina the daughter of Toſcar.: A POEM.

1. THE WAR of INIS-THONAInis-thona, i. e. the iſland of waves, was a country of Scandinavia ſubject to its own king, but depending upon the kingdom of Lochlin.—This poem is an epiſode introduced in a great work compoſed by Oſſian, in which the actions of his friends, and his beloved ſon Oſcar, were interwoven.—The work itſelf is loſt, but ſome epiſodes, and the ſtory of the poem, are handed down by tradition. There are ſome now living, who, in their youth, have heard the whole repeated.: A POEM.

1. THE BATTLE of LORA: A POEMThis poem is compleat; nor does it appear from tradition, that it was introduced, as an epiſode, into any of Oſſian's great works.—It it called, in the original, Duan a Chuldich, or the Culdee's poem, becauſe it was addreſſed to one of the firſt Chriſtian miſſionaries, who were called, from their retired life, Culdees, or ſequeſtered perſons.—The ſtory bears a near reſemblance to that which was the foundation of the Iliad. Fingal, on his return from Ireland, after he had expelled Swaran from that kingdom, made a feaſt to all his heroes: he forgot to invite Ma-ronnan and Aldo, two chiefs, who had not been along with him on his expedition. They reſented his neglect; and went over to Erragon king of Sora, a country of Scandinavia, the declared enemy of Fingal. The valour of Aldo ſoon gained him a great reputation in Sora: and Lorma the beautiful wife of Erragon fell in love with him.—He found means to eſcape with her, and to come to Fingal, who reſided then in Selma on the weſtern coaſt.—Erragon invaded Scotland, and was ſlain in battle by Gaul the ſon of Morni, after he had rejected terms of peace offered him by Fingal.—In this war Aldo fell, in a ſingle combat, by the hands of his rival Erragon; and the unfortunate Lorma afterwards died of grief..

1. CONLATH and CUTHÓNA: A POEMConlath was the youngeſt of Morni's ſons, and brother to the celebrated Gaul, who is ſo often mentioned in Oſſian's poems. He was in love with Cuthóna the daughter of Rumar, when Toſcar the ſon of Kinfena, accompanied by Fercuth his friend, arrived, from Ireland, at Mora where Conlath dwelt. He was hoſpitably received, and according to the cuſtom of the times, feaſted, three days, with Conlath. On the fourth he ſet fail, and coaſting the iſland of waves, probably, one of the Hebrides, he ſaw Cuthóna hunting, fell in love with her, and carried her away, by force, in his ſhip. He was forced, by ſtreſs of weather, into I-thona a deſart iſle. In the mean-time Conlath, hearing of the rape, ſailed after him, and found him on the point of ſailing for the coaſt of Ireland. They fought; and they, and their followers fell by mutual wounds. Cuthóna did not long ſurvive: for ſhe died of grief the third day after. Fingal, hearing of their unfortunate death, ſent Stormal the ſon of Moran to bury them, but forgot to ſend a bard to ſing the funeral ſong over their tombs. The ghoſt of Conlath came, long after, to Oſſian, to intreat him to tranſmit, to poſterity, his and Cuthona's fame. For it was the opinion of the times, that the ſouls of the deceaſed were not happy, till their elegies were compoſed by a bard.—Thus is the ſtory of the poem handed down by tradition..

1. CARTHONThis poem is compleat, and the ſubject of it, as of moſt of Oſſian's compoſitions, tragical. In the time of Comhal the ſon of Trathal, and father of the celebrated Fingal, Cleſsámmor the ſon of Thaddu and brother of Morna, Fingal's mother, was driven by a ſtorm into the river Clyde, on the banks of which ſtood Balclutha, a town belonging to the Britons between the walls. He was hoſpitably received by Reuthámir, the principal man in the place, who gave him Moina his only daughter in marriage. Reuda, the ſon of Cormo, a Briton who was in love with Moina, came to Reuthamir's houſe, and behaved haughtily towards Cleſsámmor. A quarrel inſued, in which Reuda was killed; the Britons, who attended him preſſed ſo hard on Cleſsámmor, that he was obliged to throw himſelf into the Clyde, and ſwim to his ſhip. He hoiſted ſail, and the wind being favourable, bore him out to ſea. He often endeavoured to return, and carry off his beloved Moina by night; but the wind continuing contrary, he was forced to deſiſt.Moina, who had been left with child by her huſband, brought forth a ſon, and died ſoon after.—Reuthamir named the child Carthon, i. e. the murmur of waves, from the ſtorm which carried off Cleſsámmor his father, who was ſuppoſed to have been caſt away. When Carthon was three years old, Comhal the father of Fingal, in one of his expeditions againſt the Britons, took and burnt Balclutha. Reuthámir was killed in the attack: and Carthon was carried ſafe away by his nurſe, who fled farther into the country of the Britons. Carthon, coming to man's eſtate was reſolved to revenge the fall of Balclutha on Comhal's poſterity. He ſet ſail, from the Clyde, and, falling on the coaſt of Morven, defeated two of Fingal's heroes, who came to oppoſe his progreſs. He was, at laſt, unwittingly killed by his father Cleſsámmor, in a ſingle combat. This ſtory is the foundation of the preſent poem, which opens on the night preceding the death of Carthon, ſo that what paſſed before is introduced by way of epiſode. The poem is addreſſed to Malvina the daughter of Toſcar.: A POEM.

1. THE DEATH of CUCHULLIN: A POEMTradition throws conſiderable light on the hiſtory of Ireland, during the long reign of Fingal, the ſon of Comhal, in Morven.—Arth, the ſon of Cairbre, ſupreme king of Ireland, dying, was ſucceeded by his ſon Cormac, a minor.—The petty kings and chiefs of the tribes met at Temora, the royal palace, in order to chuſe, out of their own number, a guardian to the young king. Diſputes, concerning the choice of a proper perſon, run high, and it was reſolved to end all differences by giving the tuition of the young king to Cuchullin, the ſon of Semo, who had rendered himſelf famous by his great actions, and who reſided, at the time, with Connal, the ſon of Caithbat, in Ulſter.Cuchullin was but three and twenty years old, when he aſſumed the management of affairs in Ireland: and the invaſion of Swaran happened two years after. In the twenty-ſeventh year of Cuchullin's age, and the third of his adminiſtration, Torlath, the ſon of Cantéla, ſet up for himſelf in Connaught, and advanced towards Temora, in order to dethrone Cormac. Cuchullin marched againſt him, came up with him at the Lake of Lego, and totally defeated his forces. Torlath fell in the battle by Cuchullin's hand; but as he himſelf preſſed too eagerly on the flying enemy, he was mortally wounded by an arrow, and died the ſecond day after.The good fortune of Cormac fell with Cuchullin: many ſet up for themſelves, and anarchy and confuſion reigned. At laſt Cormac was taken off, nobody knew how; and Cairbar, one of the competitors for the throne, having defeated all his rivals, became ſole monarch of Ireland.—The family of Fingal, who were in the intereſt of Cormac's family, were reſolved to deprive Cairbar of the throne he had uſurped; in particular, Oſcar the ſon of Offian had determined to revenge the death of Cathol, his friend, who had been aſſaſſinated by Cairbar.—The threats of Oſcar reached Cairbar's ears: he invited him in a friendly manner to a feaſt which he had prepared at the royal palace of Temora, reſolving to pick a quarrel, and have ſome pretext for killing him.The quarrel happened; the followers of both fought, and Cairbar and Oſcar ſell by mutual wounds: in the mean time Fingal arrived from Scotland with an army, defeated the friends of Cairbar, and re-eſtabliſhed the family of Cormac in the poſſeſſion of the kingdom.—The preſent poem concerns the death of Cuchullin. It is, in the original, called Duan loch Leigo, i. e. The Poem of Lego's Lake, and is an epiſode introduced in a great poem, which celebrated the laſt expedition of Fingal into Ireland. The greateſt part of the poem is loſt, and nothing remains but ſome epiſodes, which a few old people in the north of Scotland retain on memory.—Cuchullin is the moſt famous Champion in the Iriſh traditions and poems; in them he is always called the redoubtable Cuchullin; and the fables concerning his ſtrength and valour are innumerable. Oſſian thought his expedition againſt the Fir-bolg, or Belgae of Britain, a ſubject fit for an epic poem; which was extant till of late, and was called Tora-na-tana, or a Diſpute about Poſſeſſions, as the war which was the foundation of it, was commenced by the Britiſh Belgae, who inhabited Ireland, in order to extend their territories.—The fragments that remain of this poem are animated with the genuine ſpirit of Oſſian; ſo that there can be do doubt that it was of his compoſition..

1. DAR-THULA: A POEMIt may not be improper here, to give the ſtory which is the foundation of this poem, as it is handed down by tradition.—Uſnoth lord of Etha, which is probably that part of Argyleſhire which is near Loch Eta, an arm of the ſea in Lorn, had three ſons, Nathos, Althos, and Ardan by Slis-sáma, the daughter of Semo and ſiſter to the celebrated Cuchullin. The three brothers, when very young, were ſent over to Ireland, by their father, to learn the uſe of arms, under their uncle Cuchullin, who made a great figure in that kingdom. They were juſt landed in Ulſter when the news of Cuchullin's death arrived. Nathos, though very young, took the command of Cuchullin's army, made head againſt Cairbar the uſurper, and defeated him in ſeveral battles. Cairbar at laſt having found means to murder Cormac the lawful king, the army of Nathos ſhifted ſides, and he himſelf was obliged to return into Ulſter, in order to paſs over into Scotland.Dar-thula, the daughter of Colla, with whom Cairbar was in love, reſided, at that time, in Selama a caſtle in Ulſter: ſhe ſaw, fell in love, and fled with Nathos; but a ſtorm riſing at ſea, they were unfortunately driven back on that part of the coaſt of Ulſter, where Cairbar was encamped with his army. The three brothers, after having defended themſelves, for ſome time, with great bravery, were overpowered and ſlain, and the unfortunate Dar-thula killed herſelf upon the body of her beloved Nathos.Oſſian opens the poem, on the night preceding the death of the ſons of Uſnoth, and brings in, by way of epiſode, what paſſed before. He relates the death of Dar-thula differently from the common tradition; his account is the moſt probable, as ſuicide ſeems to have been unknown in thoſe early times: for no traces of it are found in the old poetry..

1. TEMORA: AN EPIC POEMThough the hiſtory which is the foundation of the preſent poem, was given in the notes on the two pieces preceding, it may not be here improper to recapitulate ſome part of what has been ſaid.—Immediately after the death of Cuchullin, Cairbar, lord of Atha, openly ſet up for himſelf in Connaught, and having privately murdered young king Cormac, became, without oppoſition, ſole monarch of Ireland. The murder of Cormac was ſo much reſented by Fingal, that he reſolved on an expedition into Ireland againſt Cairbar. Early intelligence of his deſigns came to Cairbar, and he had gathered the tribes together into Ulſter, to oppoſe Fingal's landing; at the ſame time his brother Cathmor kept himſelf with an army near Temora.—This Cathmor is one of the fineſt characters in the old poetry. His humanity, generoſity, and hoſpitality, were unparallelled: in ſhort, he had no fault, but too much attachment to ſo bad a brother as Cairbar.—The preſent poem has its name from Temora, the royal palace of the Iriſh kings, near which the laſt and deciſive battle was fought between Fingal and Cathmor. What has come to the tranſlator's hands, in a regular connection, is little more than the opening of the poem.—This work appears, from the ſtory of it, which is ſtill preſerv'd, to have been one of the greateſt of Oſſian's compoſitions. The variety of the characters makes it intereſting; and the war, as it is carried on by Fingal and Cathmor, affords inſtances of the greateſt bravery, mixed with incomparably generous actions and ſentiments. One is at a loſs for which ſide to declare himſelf: and often wiſhes, when both commanders march to battle, that both may return victorious. At length the good fortune of Fingal preponderates, and the family of Cormac are re-eſtabliſhed on the Iriſh throne.The Iriſh traditions relate the affair in another light, and exclaim againſt Fingal for appointing thirty judges, or rather tyrants, at Temora, for regulating the affairs of Ireland. They pretend to enumerate many acts of oppreſſion committed by thoſe judges; and affirm, that both they and a part of Fingal's army, which was left in Ireland to enforce their laws, were at laſt expelled the kingdom.—Thus the Iriſh traditions, ſay the hiſtorians of that nation. It is ſaid, however, that thoſe gentlemen ſometimes create facts, in order afterwards to make remarks upon them; at leaſt, that they adopt for real facts, the traditions of their bards, when they throw luſtre on the ancient ſtate of their country.The preſent poem opens in the morning. Cairbar is repreſented as retired from the reſt of the Iriſh chiefs, and tormented with remorſe for the murder of Cormac, when news was brought him of Fingal's landing. What paſſed, preceding that day, and is neceſſary to be known for carrying on the poem, is afterwards introduced by way of epiſode..
One of the Fragments of Ancient Poetry lately publiſhed, gives a different account of the death of O
1. CARRIC-THURA: A POEMFingal, returning from an expedition which he had made into the Roman province, reſolved to viſit Cathulla king of Inis-tore, and brother to Comála, whoſe ſtory is related, at large, in the dramatic poem, publiſhed in this collection. Upon his coming in ſight of Carric-thura, the palace of Cathulla, he obſerved a flame on its top, which, in thoſe days, was a ſignal of diſtreſs. The wind drove him into a bay, at ſome diſtance from Carric-thura, and he was obliged to paſs the night on the ſhore. Next day he attacked the army of Frothal king of Sora who had beſieged Cathulla in his palace of Carric-thura, and took Frothal himſelf priſoner, after he had engaged him in a ſingle combat. The deliverance of Carric-thura is the ſubject of the poem, but ſeveral other epiſodes are interwoven with it. It appears from tradition, that this poem was addreſſed to a Culdee, or one of the firſt Chriſtian miſſionaries, and that the ſtory of the Spirit of Loda, ſuppoſed to be the ancient Odin of Scandinavia, was introduced by Oſſian in oppoſition to the Culdee's doctrine. Be this as it will, it lets us into Oſſian's notions of a ſuperior being; and ſhews that he was not addicted to the ſuperſtition which prevailed all the world over, before the introduction of Chriſtianity..

1. THE SONGS of SELMAThis poem fixes the antiquity of a cuſtom, which is well known to have prevailed afterwards, in the north of Scotland, and in Ireland. The bards, at an annual feaſt, provided by the king or chief, repeated their poems, and ſuch of them as were thought, by him, worthy of being preſerved, were carefully taught to their children, in order to have them tranſmitted to poſterity.—It was one of thoſe occaſions that afforded the ſubject of the preſent poem to Oſſian.—It is called in the original, the ſongs of Selma, which title it was thought proper to adopt in the tranſlation.The poem is entirely lyric, and has great variety of verſification. The addreſs to the evening ſtar, with which it opens, has in the original all the harmony that numbers could give it; flowing down with all that tranquility and ſoftneſs, which the ſcene deſcribed naturally inſpires.—Three of the ſongs which are introduced in this piece, were publiſhed among the fragments of ancient poetry, printed laſt year..

1. CALTHON and COLMAL: A POEMThis piece, as many more of Oſſian's compoſitions, is addreſſed to one of the firſt Chriſtian miſſionaries.—The ſtory of the poem is handed down, by tradition, thus—In the country of the Britons between the walls, two chiefs lived in the days of Fingal, Dunthalmo, lord of Teutha, ſuppoſed to be the Tweed; and Rathmor, who dwelt at Clutha, well known to be the river Clyde.—Rathmor was not more renowned for his generoſity and hoſpitality, than Dunthalmo was infamous for his cruelty and ambition.—Dunthalmo, thro' envy, or on account of ſome private ſeuds, which ſubſiſted between the families, murdered Cathmor at a ſeaſt; but being afterwards touched with remorſe, he educated the two ſons of Rathmor, Calthon and Colmar, in his own houſe.—They growing up to man's eſtate, dropped ſome hints that they intended to revenge the death of their father, upon which Dunthalmo ſhut them up in two caves on the banks of Teutha, intending to take them off privately.—Colmal, the daughter of Dunthalmo, who was ſecretly in love with Calthon, helped him to make his eſcape from priſon, and ſled with him to Fingal, diſguiſed in the habit of a young warrior, and implored his aid againſt Dunthalmo.—Fingal ſent Oſſian with three hundred men, to Colmar's relief.—Dunthalmo having previouſly murdered Colmar, came to a battle with Oſſian; but he was killed by that hero, and his army totally defeated.Calthon married Colmal, his deliverer; and Oſſian returned to Morven..

1. LATHMON: A POEMLathmon a Britiſh prince, taking advantage of Fingal's abſence in Ireland, made a deſcent on Morven, and advanced within ſight of Selma the royal palace. Fingal arrived in the mean time, and Lathmon retreated to a hill, where his army was ſurprized by night, and himſelf taken priſoner by Oſſian and Gaul the ſon of Morni. This exploit of Gaul and Oſſian bears a near reſemblance to the beautiful epiſode of Niſus and Euryalus in Virgil's ninth Aeneid. The poem opens, with the firſt appearance of Fingal on the coaſt of Morven, and ends, it may be ſuppoſed, about noon the next day. The firſt paragraph is in a lyric meaſure, and appears to have been ſung, of old, to the harp, as a prelude to the narrative part of the poem, which is in heroic verſe..

1. OITHÓNA: A POEMGaul, the ſon of Morni, attended Lathmon into his own country, after his being defeated in Morven, as related in the preceding poem. He was kindly entertained by Nuäth, the father of Lathmon, and fell in love with his daughter Oithona.—The lady was no leſs enamoured of Gaul, and a day was fixed for their marriage. In the mean time Fingal, preparing for an expedition into the country of the Britons, ſent for Gaul. He obeyed, and went; but not without promiſing to Oithona to return, if he ſurvived the war, by a certain day.—Lathmon too was obliged to attend his father Nuäth in his wars, and Oithona was left alone at Dunlathmon, the ſeat of the family.—Dunrommath, lord of Uthal, ſuppoſed to be one of the Orkneys, taking advantage of the abſence of her friends, came and carried off, by force, Oithona, who had formerly rejected his love, into Tromáthon, a deſart iſland, where he concealed her in a cave.Gaul returned on the day appointed; heard of the rape, and ſailed to Tromáthon, to revenge himſelf on Dunrommath. When he landed, he found Oi-thona diſconſolate, and reſolved not to ſurvive the loſs of her honour.—She told him the ſtory of her misfortunes, and ſhe ſcarce ended, when Dunrommath, with his followers, appeared at the further end of the iſland. Gaul prepared to attack him, recommending to Oithona to retire, till the battle was over.—She ſeemingly obeyed; but ſhe ſecretly armed herſelf, ruſhed into the thickeſt of the battle, and was mortally wounded.—Gaul purſuing the flying enemy, found her juſt expiring on the field: he mourned over her, raiſed her tomb, and returned to Morven.—Thus is the ſtory handed down by tradition; nor is it given with any material difference in the poem, which opens with Gaul's return to Dunlathmon, after the rape of Oithona..

1. CROMA: A POEMMalvina the daughter of Toſcar is overheard by Oſſian lamenting the death of Oſcar her lover. Oſſian, to divert her grief, relates his own actions in an ex edition which he undertook, at Fingal's command, to aid Crothar the petty king of Croma, a country in Ireland, againſt Rothmar who invaded his dominions. The ſtory is delivered down thus in tradition. Crothar king of Croma being blind with age, and his ſon too young for the field, Rothmar the chief of Tromlo reſolved to avail himſelf of the opportunity offered of annexing the dominions of Crothar to his own. He accordingly marched into the country ſubject to Crothar, but which he held of Arth or Artho, who was, at the time, ſupreme king of Ireland.Crothar being, on account of his age and blindneſs, unfit for action, ſent for aid to Fingal king of Scotland; who ordered his ſon Oſſian to the relief of Crothar. But before his arrival Fovar-gormo, the ſon of Crothar, attacking Rothmar, was ſlain himſelf, and his forces totally defeated. Oſſian renewed the war; came to battle, killed Rothmar, and routed his army. Croma being thus delivered of its enemies, Oſſian returned to Scotland..

1. BERRATHON: A POEMThis poem is reputed to have been compoſed by Oſſian, a little time before his death; and conſequently it is known in tradition by no other name than Oſſian's laſt hymn. The tranſlator has taken the liberty to call it Berrathon, from the epiſode concerning the re-eſtabliſhment of Larthmor king of that iſland, after he had been dethroned by his own ſon Uthal. Fingal in his voyage to Lochlin [Fing. B. III.] whither he had been invited by Starno the father of Agandecca, ſo often mentioned in Oſſian's poems, touched at Berrathon, an iſland of Scandinavia, where he was kindly entertained by Larthmor the petty king of the place, who was a vaſſal of the ſupreme kings of Lochlin. The hoſpitality of Larthmor gained him Fingal's friendſhip, which that hero manifeſted, after the impriſonment of Larthmor by his own ſon, by ſending Oſſian and Toſcar, the father of Malvina ſo often mentioned, to reſcue Larthmor, and to puniſh the unnatural behaviour of Uthal. Uthal was handſome to a proverb, and conſequently much admired by the ladies. Nina-thoma the beautiful daughter of Torthóma, a neighbouring prince, fell in love and fled with him. He proved unconſtant; for another lady, whoſe name is not mentioned, gaining his affections, he confined Nina-thoma to a deſart iſland near the coaſt of Berrathon. She was relieved by Oſſian, who, in company with Toſcar, landing on Berrathon, defeated the forces of Uthal, and killed him in a ſingle combat. Nina-thoma, whoſe love not all the bad behaviour of Uthal could eraſe, hearing of his death, died of grief. In the mean time Larthmor is reſtored, and Oſſian and Toſcar returned in triumph to Fingal.The preſent poem opens with an elegy on the death of Malvina the daughter of Toſcar, and cloſes with preſages of the poet's death. It is almoſt altogether in a lyric meaſure, and has that melancholy air which diſtinguiſhes the remains of the works of Oſſian. If ever he compoſed any thing of a merry turn it is long ſince loſt. The ſerious and melancholy make the moſt laſting impreſſions on the human mind, and bid faireſt for being tranſmitted from generation to generation by tradition. Nor is it probable that Oſſian dea't much in chearful compoſition. Melancholy is ſo much the companion of a great genius, that it is difficult to ſeparate the idea of levity from chearfulneſs, which is ſometimes the mark of an amiable diſpoſition, but never the characteriſtic of elevated parts..

**Types of content**

  * There are 351 **verse** lines!
  * There are 57 **drama** parts! This is **prose drama**.
  * Oh, Mr. Jourdain, there is **prose** in there!

There are 61 **ommitted** fragments! 
 @__reason__ (61) : illegible (14), missing (1), foreign (46)  •  @__resp__ (61) : #OXF (61)  •  @__extent__ (61) : 1+ letters (3), 1 letter (10), 2 letters (1), 1 page (1), 1 line (45), 1 word (1)

**Character listing**


|Text|string(s)|codepoint(s)|
|---|---|---|
|Latin-1 Supplement|óéáöûäÁúÓè|243 233 225 246 251 228 193 250 211 232|
|Latin Extended-A|ſ|383|
|General Punctuation|•…—|8226 8230 8212|
|Superscripts             and Subscripts|⁰|8304|
|CJKSymbolsandPunctuation|〈〉|12296 12297|

##Tag Usage Summary##

###Header Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__author__|2||
|2.|__availability__|1||
|3.|__biblFull__|1||
|4.|__date__|2| @__when__ (1) : 2009-10 (1)|
|5.|__editorialDecl__|1||
|6.|__extent__|2||
|7.|__idno__|7| @__type__ (7) : DLPS (1), ESTC (1), DOCNO (1), TCP (1), GALEDOCNO (1), CONTENTSET (1), IMAGESETID (1)|
|8.|__langUsage__|1||
|9.|__language__|1| @__ident__ (1) : eng (1)|
|10.|__listPrefixDef__|1||
|11.|__note__|6||
|12.|__notesStmt__|1||
|13.|__p__|11||
|14.|__prefixDef__|2| @__ident__ (2) : tcp (1), char (1)  •  @__matchPattern__ (2) : ([0-9\-]+):([0-9IVX]+) (1), (.+) (1)  •  @__replacementPattern__ (2) : http://eebo.chadwyck.com/downloadtiff?vid=$1&page=$2 (1), https://raw.githubusercontent.com/textcreationpartnership/Texts/master/tcpchars.xml#$1 (1)|
|15.|__projectDesc__|1||
|16.|__pubPlace__|2||
|17.|__publicationStmt__|2||
|18.|__publisher__|2||
|19.|__ref__|2| @__target__ (2) : https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ (1), http://www.textcreationpartnership.org/docs/. (1)|
|20.|__sourceDesc__|1||
|21.|__title__|2||
|22.|__titleStmt__|2||


###Text Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__bibl__|105||
|2.|__desc__|61||
|3.|__div__|28| @__type__ (28) : title_page (1), table_of_contents (1), preface (1), dissertation (1), poem (17), book (6), note (1)  •  @__n__ (6) : 1 (1), 2 (1), 3 (1), 4 (1), 5 (1), 6 (1)|
|4.|__figure__|1||
|5.|__g__|868| @__ref__ (868) : char:EOLhyphen (868)|
|6.|__gap__|61| @__reason__ (61) : illegible (14), missing (1), foreign (46)  •  @__resp__ (61) : #OXF (61)  •  @__extent__ (61) : 1+ letters (3), 1 letter (10), 2 letters (1), 1 page (1), 1 line (45), 1 word (1)|
|7.|__head__|32||
|8.|__hi__|261| @__rend__ (1) : sup (1)|
|9.|__item__|30||
|10.|__l__|351||
|11.|__list__|4| @__type__ (1) : dramatis_personae (1)|
|12.|__note__|394| @__place__ (394) : margin (19), bottom (375)  •  @__n__ (375) : * (191), † (104), ‡ (51), ‖ (24), {inverted †} (4), § (1)|
|13.|__p__|1002||
|14.|__pb__|298| @__facs__ (298) : tcp:0509500400:1 (1), tcp:0509500400:2 (1), tcp:0509500400:3 (1), tcp:0509500400:4 (1), tcp:0509500400:5 (1), tcp:0509500400:6 (1), tcp:0509500400:7 (1), tcp:0509500400:8 (1), tcp:0509500400:9 (1), tcp:0509500400:10 (1), tcp:0509500400:11 (1), tcp:0509500400:12 (1), tcp:0509500400:13 (1), tcp:0509500400:14 (1), tcp:0509500400:15 (1), tcp:0509500400:16 (1), tcp:0509500400:17 (1), tcp:0509500400:18 (1), tcp:0509500400:19 (1), tcp:0509500400:20 (1), tcp:0509500400:21 (1), tcp:0509500400:22 (1), tcp:0509500400:23 (1), tcp:0509500400:24 (1), tcp:0509500400:25 (1), tcp:0509500400:26 (1), tcp:0509500400:27 (1), tcp:0509500400:28 (1), tcp:0509500400:29 (1), tcp:0509500400:30 (1), tcp:0509500400:31 (1), tcp:0509500400:32 (1), tcp:0509500400:33 (1), tcp:0509500400:34 (1), tcp:0509500400:35 (1), tcp:0509500400:36 (1), tcp:0509500400:37 (1), tcp:0509500400:38 (1), tcp:0509500400:39 (1), tcp:0509500400:40 (1), tcp:0509500400:41 (1), tcp:0509500400:42 (1), tcp:0509500400:43 (1), tcp:0509500400:44 (1), tcp:0509500400:45 (1), tcp:0509500400:46 (1), tcp:0509500400:47 (1), tcp:0509500400:48 (1), tcp:0509500400:49 (1), tcp:0509500400:50 (1), tcp:0509500400:51 (1), tcp:0509500400:52 (1), tcp:0509500400:53 (1), tcp:0509500400:54 (1), tcp:0509500400:55 (1), tcp:0509500400:56 (1), tcp:0509500400:57 (1), tcp:0509500400:58 (1), tcp:0509500400:59 (1), tcp:0509500400:60 (1), tcp:0509500400:61 (1), tcp:0509500400:62 (1), tcp:0509500400:63 (1), tcp:0509500400:64 (1), tcp:0509500400:65 (1), tcp:0509500400:66 (1), tcp:0509500400:67 (1), tcp:0509500400:68 (1), tcp:0509500400:69 (1), tcp:0509500400:70 (1), tcp:0509500400:71 (1), tcp:0509500400:72 (1), tcp:0509500400:73 (1), tcp:0509500400:74 (1), tcp:0509500400:75 (1), tcp:0509500400:76 (1), tcp:0509500400:77 (1), tcp:0509500400:78 (1), tcp:0509500400:79 (1), tcp:0509500400:80 (1), tcp:0509500400:81 (1), tcp:0509500400:82 (1), tcp:0509500400:83 (1), tcp:0509500400:84 (1), tcp:0509500400:85 (1), tcp:0509500400:86 (1), tcp:0509500400:87 (1), tcp:0509500400:88 (1), tcp:0509500400:89 (1), tcp:0509500400:90 (1), tcp:0509500400:91 (1), tcp:0509500400:92 (1), tcp:0509500400:93 (1), tcp:0509500400:94 (1), tcp:0509500400:95 (1), tcp:0509500400:96 (1), tcp:0509500400:97 (1), tcp:0509500400:98 (1), tcp:0509500400:99 (1), tcp:0509500400:100 (1), tcp:0509500400:101 (1), tcp:0509500400:102 (1), tcp:0509500400:103 (1), tcp:0509500400:104 (1), tcp:0509500400:105 (1), tcp:0509500400:106 (1), tcp:0509500400:107 (1), tcp:0509500400:108 (1), tcp:0509500400:109 (1), tcp:0509500400:110 (1), tcp:0509500400:111 (1), tcp:0509500400:112 (1), tcp:0509500400:113 (1), tcp:0509500400:114 (1), tcp:0509500400:115 (1), tcp:0509500400:116 (1), tcp:0509500400:117 (1), tcp:0509500400:118 (1), tcp:0509500400:119 (1), tcp:0509500400:120 (1), tcp:0509500400:121 (1), tcp:0509500400:122 (1), tcp:0509500400:123 (1), tcp:0509500400:124 (1), tcp:0509500400:125 (1), tcp:0509500400:126 (1), tcp:0509500400:127 (1), tcp:0509500400:128 (1), tcp:0509500400:129 (1), tcp:0509500400:130 (1), tcp:0509500400:131 (1), tcp:0509500400:132 (1), tcp:0509500400:133 (1), tcp:0509500400:134 (1), tcp:0509500400:135 (1), tcp:0509500400:136 (1), tcp:0509500400:137 (1), tcp:0509500400:138 (1), tcp:0509500400:139 (1), tcp:0509500400:140 (1), tcp:0509500400:141 (1), tcp:0509500400:142 (1), tcp:0509500400:143 (1), tcp:0509500400:144 (1), tcp:0509500400:145 (1), tcp:0509500400:146 (1), tcp:0509500400:147 (1), tcp:0509500400:148 (1), tcp:0509500400:149 (1), tcp:0509500400:150 (1), tcp:0509500400:151 (1), tcp:0509500400:152 (1), tcp:0509500400:153 (1), tcp:0509500400:154 (1), tcp:0509500400:155 (1), tcp:0509500400:156 (1), tcp:0509500400:157 (1), tcp:0509500400:158 (1), tcp:0509500400:159 (1), tcp:0509500400:160 (1), tcp:0509500400:161 (1), tcp:0509500400:162 (1), tcp:0509500400:163 (1), tcp:0509500400:164 (1), tcp:0509500400:165 (1), tcp:0509500400:166 (1), tcp:0509500400:167 (1), tcp:0509500400:168 (1), tcp:0509500400:169 (1), tcp:0509500400:170 (1), tcp:0509500400:171 (1), tcp:0509500400:172 (1), tcp:0509500400:173 (1), tcp:0509500400:174 (1), tcp:0509500400:175 (1), tcp:0509500400:176 (1), tcp:0509500400:177 (1), tcp:0509500400:178 (1), tcp:0509500400:179 (1), tcp:0509500400:180 (1), tcp:0509500400:181 (1), tcp:0509500400:182 (1), tcp:0509500400:183 (1), tcp:0509500400:184 (1), tcp:0509500400:185 (1), tcp:0509500400:186 (1), tcp:0509500400:187 (1), tcp:0509500400:188 (1), tcp:0509500400:189 (1), tcp:0509500400:190 (1), tcp:0509500400:191 (1), tcp:0509500400:192 (1), tcp:0509500400:193 (1), tcp:0509500400:194 (1), tcp:0509500400:195 (1), tcp:0509500400:196 (1), tcp:0509500400:197 (1), tcp:0509500400:198 (1), tcp:0509500400:199 (1), tcp:0509500400:200 (1), tcp:0509500400:201 (1), tcp:0509500400:202 (1), tcp:0509500400:203 (1), tcp:0509500400:204 (1), tcp:0509500400:205 (1), tcp:0509500400:206 (1), tcp:0509500400:207 (1), tcp:0509500400:208 (1), tcp:0509500400:209 (1), tcp:0509500400:210 (1), tcp:0509500400:211 (1), tcp:0509500400:212 (1), tcp:0509500400:213 (1), tcp:0509500400:214 (1), tcp:0509500400:215 (1), tcp:0509500400:216 (1), tcp:0509500400:217 (1), tcp:0509500400:218 (1), tcp:0509500400:219 (1), tcp:0509500400:220 (1), tcp:0509500400:221 (1), tcp:0509500400:222 (1), tcp:0509500400:223 (1), tcp:0509500400:224 (1), tcp:0509500400:225 (1), tcp:0509500400:226 (1), tcp:0509500400:227 (1), tcp:0509500400:228 (1), tcp:0509500400:229 (1), tcp:0509500400:230 (1), tcp:0509500400:231 (1), tcp:0509500400:232 (1), tcp:0509500400:233 (1), tcp:0509500400:234 (1), tcp:0509500400:235 (1), tcp:0509500400:236 (1), tcp:0509500400:237 (1), tcp:0509500400:238 (1), tcp:0509500400:239 (1), tcp:0509500400:240 (1), tcp:0509500400:241 (1), tcp:0509500400:242 (1), tcp:0509500400:243 (1), tcp:0509500400:244 (1), tcp:0509500400:245 (1), tcp:0509500400:246 (1), tcp:0509500400:247 (1), tcp:0509500400:248 (1), tcp:0509500400:249 (1), tcp:0509500400:250 (1), tcp:0509500400:251 (1), tcp:0509500400:252 (1), tcp:0509500400:253 (1), tcp:0509500400:254 (1), tcp:0509500400:255 (1), tcp:0509500400:256 (1), tcp:0509500400:257 (1), tcp:0509500400:258 (1), tcp:0509500400:259 (1), tcp:0509500400:260 (1), tcp:0509500400:261 (1), tcp:0509500400:262 (1), tcp:0509500400:263 (1), tcp:0509500400:264 (1), tcp:0509500400:265 (1), tcp:0509500400:266 (1), tcp:0509500400:267 (1), tcp:0509500400:268 (1), tcp:0509500400:269 (1), tcp:0509500400:270 (1), tcp:0509500400:271 (1), tcp:0509500400:272 (1), tcp:0509500400:273 (1), tcp:0509500400:274 (1), tcp:0509500400:275 (1), tcp:0509500400:276 (1), tcp:0509500400:277 (1), tcp:0509500400:278 (1), tcp:0509500400:279 (1), tcp:0509500400:280 (1), tcp:0509500400:281 (1), tcp:0509500400:282 (1), tcp:0509500400:283 (1), tcp:0509500400:284 (1), tcp:0509500400:285 (1), tcp:0509500400:286 (1), tcp:0509500400:287 (1), tcp:0509500400:288 (1), tcp:0509500400:289 (1), tcp:0509500400:290 (1), tcp:0509500400:291 (1), tcp:0509500400:292 (1), tcp:0509500400:293 (1), tcp:0509500400:294 (1), tcp:0509500400:295 (1), tcp:0509500400:296 (1), tcp:0509500400:297 (1), tcp:0509500400:298 (1)  •  @__rendition__ (2) : simple:additions (2)  •  @__n__ (283) : ii (1), iii (1), iv (1), v (1), vi (1), vii (1), viii (1), ix (1), x (1), xi (1), xii (1), xiii (1), xiv (1), xv (1), xvi (1), 1 (1), 2 (1), 3 (1), 4 (1), 5 (1), 6 (1), 7 (1), 8 (1), 9 (1), 10 (1), 11 (1), 12 (1), 13 (1), 14 (1), 15 (1), 16 (1), 17 (1), 18 (1), 19 (1), 21 (1), 22 (1), 23 (1), 24 (1), 25 (1), 26 (1), 27 (1), 28 (1), 29 (1), 30 (1), 31 (1), 32 (1), 33 (1), 34 (1), 35 (1), 36 (1), 37 (1), 38 (1), 39 (1), 40 (1), 41 (1), 42 (1), 43 (1), 44 (1), 45 (1), 46 (1), 47 (1), 48 (1), 49 (1), 50 (1), 51 (1), 52 (1), 53 (1), 54 (1), 55 (1), 56 (1), 57 (1), 58 (1), 59 (1), 60 (1), 61 (1), 62 (1), 63 (1), 64 (1), 65 (1), 66 (1), 67 (1), 68 (1), 69 (1), 70 (1), 71 (1), 72 (1), 73 (1), 74 (1), 75 (1), 76 (1), 77 (1), 78 (1), 79 (1), 80 (1), 81 (1), 82 (1), 83 (1), 84 (1), 85 (1), 87 (1), 88 (1), 89 (1), 90 (1), 91 (1), 92 (1), 93 (1), 94 (1), 95 (1), 96 (1), 97 (1), 98 (1), 99 (1), 100 (1), 101 (1), 102 (1), 103 (1), 104 (1), 105 (1), 106 (1), 107 (1), 108 (1), 109 (1), 110 (1), 111 (1), 112 (1), 113 (1), 114 (1), 115 (1), 116 (1), 117 (1), 118 (1), 119 (1), 120 (1), 121 (1), 122 (1), 123 (1), 124 (1), 125 (1), 126 (1), 127 (1), 128 (1), 129 (1), 130 (1), 131 (1), 132 (1), 133 (1), 134 (1), 135 (1), 136 (1), 137 (1), 138 (1), 139 (1), 140 (1), 141 (1), 142 (1), 143 (1), 144 (1), 145 (1), 146 (1), 147 (1), 148 (1), 149 (1), 150 (1), 151 (1), 152 (1), 153 (1), 154 (1), 155 (1), 156 (1), 157 (1), 158 (1), 159 (1), 160 (1), 161 (1), 162 (1), 163 (1), 164 (1), 165 (1), 166 (1), 167 (1), 168 (1), 169 (1), 170 (1), 171 (1), 172 (1), 173 (1), 174 (1), 175 (1), 176 (1), 177 (1), 178 (1), 179 (1), 180 (1), 181 (1), 182 (1), 183 (1), 184 (1), 185 (1), 186 (1), 187 (1), 188 (1), 189 (1), 190 (1), 191 (1), 192 (1), 193 (1), 194 (1), 195 (1), 196 (1), 197 (1), 198 (1), 199 (1), 200 (1), 201 (1), 202 (1), 203 (1), 204 (1), 205 (1), 206 (1), 207 (1), 208 (1), 209 (1), 210 (1), 211 (1), 212 (1), 213 (1), 214 (1), 215 (1), 216 (1), 217 (1), 218 (1), 219 (1), 220 (1), 221 (1), 222 (1), 223 (1), 224 (1), 225 (1), 226 (1), 227 (1), 228 (1), 229 (1), 230 (1), 231 (1), 232 (1), 233 (1), 234 (1), 235 (1), 236 (1), 237 (1), 238 (1), 239 (1), 240 (1), 241 (1), 242 (1), 243 (1), 244 (1), 245 (1), 246 (1), 247 (1), 248 (1), 249 (1), 250 (1), 251 (1), 252 (1), 253 (1), 254 (1), 255 (1), 256 (1), 257 (1), 258 (1), 259 (1), 260 (1), 261 (1), 262 (1), 263 (1), 264 (1), 265 (1), 266 (1), 267 (1), 268 (1), 269 (1), 270 (1)|
|15.|__q__|135| @__rend__ (37) : inline (37)|
|16.|__sp__|57||
|17.|__speaker__|57||
|18.|__trailer__|1||
